Madeleine Woo
18 April 2022
MKTG 300
Chapter 7: Segmenting Consumer Markets: Demographic and Behavioral
Segmentation
Within consumer markets, there are different segmentation variables, which
include geographic, demographic, psychographic, and behavioral. Demographics
divide the market into segments that relate to age, income, life-cycle stage,
education, religion, ethnicity, gender, occupation, and generation. Religion
and ethnicity play a large role in how a product will succeed or fail within
these demographics. If Pringles tried to sell bacon-flavored chips for Ramadan
in Asia, it would not sell well because the Holy Quran declares pork as a
forbidden food. Understanding the demographics of the consumers you are trying
to target is essential because you can further refine and cater your product
to meet consumer needs. 
At Uppababy, founders Laura and Bob Monahan catered to their needs, which
ended up serving a specific demographic. Laura and Bob were of the newer
generation that had kids later in age and in quick succession. Thus, they
needed a modular stroller that could add additional seats as their family grew
over the years. The Monahan’s, like many couples, had a height difference, so
Bob would get frustrated when his long legs kicked the crossbar underneath the
stroller. When he designed his Uppababy stroller, he made sure to curve the
bar so longer legs would not hit the stroller. Model Brooke Shields
appreciated the thoughtful design made with taller people in mind. 
When innovating new products, it is key to think about new demographics to
capture. For Uppababy, they catered to the up-and-coming male market
segmentation. Dads were becoming interested in looking at strollers and
specifically looking for designs that were engineered well. Features like
light aluminum frames, all-wheel suspension, and shock-absorbing fronts
attracted dads to Uppababy’s strollers. 
Behavioral segmentation segments the market based on consumer knowledge,
attitudes, uses of a product, or responses to a product. Oftentimes, consumers
use a product different from how a producer intended. For example, when people
began using seam rippers to put rips and holes in their jeans and shirts,
companies began to intentionally make jeans and shirts with fashionable rips.
When companies observe how their products are being used, they can develop a
better vision for their market segments. Uppababy recognized that dads have
high consumer knowledge, an attitude geared toward efficiency, and want the
stroller to be durable for adventures with their child. 
Chapter 8: Product and Service Decisions: Individual product and service
decisions; Quality, features, style, and design
	Within the second level of product lies the “actual product”. Elements
	that are essential to the actual product are quality, features, style, and
	design. These elements cater to the core customer value, or what the
	customer is actually buying. For Uppababy, core customer values are
	performance, luxury, dependability, and adventure. With the Uppababy
	strollers, life is exciting and every moment is an adventure. Quality,
	features, style, and design are agents to achieving this core customer
	value.
		Quality serves the dependability that customers are looking for in a
		stroller. Parents need to be sure that their stroller can weather the
		wear and tear of daily life with kids and that it will keep their
		child safe. Thus, maintaining high quality is an essential element
		towards providing customer value. 
			Features like extra storage, canopies, and cup holders play a big
			role in customer satisfaction. Not only do features differentiate
			a product, but they also add luxury to a product. Parents may not
			be able to afford a vacation to Cancun, but they can afford a cup
			holder for their favorite morning coffee. They can also afford
			larger wheels with a strong axel so the stroller rolls smoothly
			instead of rattling and spilling aforementioned coffee all over
			the baby. These little bits of luxury that these features provide
			make a customer feel special and valued. 
				While style is not Bob Monahan’s strong suit, it plays a huge
				role in whether or not the stroller sells. Style speaks on
				behalf of the product and its makers, so it should
				consistently reinforce the core customer values. Uppababy’s
				stroller fabric would not have cheap fabric with wild patterns
				on it if they were trying to provide luxury and class. 
				The Monahan’s did not sacrifice the style, quality, design, or
				features to make their product meet a target selling price.
				Bob said, “We wanna make the stuff with us as the target
				audience. We wanna make what we like. It wasn’t about we wanna
				make something that costs this much so people can’t afford it,
				people will think we’re cool. No, this is the one we want,
				this is what it costs.” Thus, there was no consideration of
				price until the product was perfectly designed according to
				the Monahan’s. It was important for the Monahan’s to create
				their version of the perfect stroller without compromises
				because it helped create a business model they believed in.
				Believing in one’s own business is essential to advocating for
				the business and genuinely marketing products. 



				Chapter 9: New Product Development: Idea Generation thru
				Commercialization
					Idea generation is the search for new product ideas. This
					stage is the genesis of new products and requires
					innovation and creativity. That creativity can come from
					outside (external idea source) or inside (internal idea
					source) the company. Internal idea sources come from the
					company’s employees and can be helpful because it gathers
					information from people who know the company’s brand and
					market the best. External idea sources can be competitors,
					suppliers and distributors. These sources are still close
					to the company’s market, but they have a different
					perspective, so they can provide innovative solutions for
					solving customer dilemmas. Providing new products is all
					about tending to the customer dilemmas and providing the
					best solutions.
					In concept development and testing, companies create
					different detailed versions of the product idea, called
					product concepts. These product concepts put the detailed
					product idea into consumer terms. Concept testing finds
					out if these product concepts are attractive to their
					group of target consumers. Concept development and testing
					serves as a checkpoint to see if a company should continue
					pursuing this product idea. If consumers don’t respond
					well to any of the product concepts, then this is a sign
					for the company to drop the product idea. Not many
						resources will be lost and the company can free up
						resources to search for the next product idea. 
						Marketing strategy development involves drafting a
						three-part marketing strategy statement. Part one
						answers who the target market is, what the planned
						value proposition is, what the sales are, what the
						market share is, and what the profit goals are for the
						first years. Part two states the planned price,
						distribution, and marketing budget for the first year.
						Part three details the planned long-run sales, profit
						goals, and marketing mix strategy. Marketing strategy
						development is the blueprint for making a new product
						succeed. Without specific, measurable, achievable,
						reasonable, and timely goals, the product development
						cannot move forward and the company cannot tell how
						successful the product was.  
						Business analysis is a check on the marketing strategy
						statement to see if the product will meet the sales,
						costs, and profit projections. Companies create these
						estimates by looking at the sales history of similar
						products and market surveys.
						Commercialization is the final phase that brings a new
						product to market. Two key considerations must be made
						when businesses commercialize a product: timing and
						location. For example, businesses might delay the
						launch of a new product due to the economy or a
						pandemic. Location means where the business will
						launch the products. If KFC developed vegan chicken
						nuggets, they might want to initially launch in urban
						areas where there is a higher concentration of people
						who eat plant-based. 
						Chapter 10 and 11:  Customer Value-Based pricing
							Customer value-based pricing sets the selling
							price based on the customer’s perceived value of
							the product. For example, luxury brands know their
							customers value prestige, wealth, and status.
							Prada shoes have a retail price of around $1,000,
							but they cost a fraction of that to produce. Prada
							has a high enough profit margin to significantly
							reduce the cost of their shoes, but that would
							work against their business model. Customers who
							buy Prada are also buying the bragging rights of
							saying they can afford $1,000 shoes. High prices
							for luxury brands do, in fact, increase demand for
								their products. 
									In the same vein, non-luxury brands are
									not going to price their products like
									luxury brands. Customers at Target are not
									looking to buy clothes at exorbitant
									prices for clout. Target customers are
									looking to “expect more” and “pay less.”
										The process of value-based pricing in
										chronological order is evaluating
										customer needs and value perceptions,
										determining the target price based on
										the customer-perceived value, totaling
										the allowable costs, and creating a
										product that meets the target price.
										Value-based pricing ensures that the
										product already has a market that will
										value it. Rather than taking a gamble
										with cost-based pricing and hoping a
										business can convince its customers of
										the value, value-based pricing begins
										with the customer and has a greater
										chance of success. 
											The two types of value-based
											pricing are good-value pricing and
											value-added pricing.
												Good-value pricing is popular
												right now because younger
												generations want products that
												align with their personal
												values. For example, Gen Z is
												more climate conscious than
												previous generations, so they
												look for products that produce
												less waste, last longer, or
												are made from sustainable
												materials. While a throwaway
												culture is still prevalent
												today, there is a slow
												movement towards buying used
												and/or products that last.
												Customers do not necessarily
												look for the cheapest products
												because they have come to also
												value quality. 
													Value-added pricing opens
													up a single product to a
													wider market because the
													added features create
													differentiation.
													Increasingly, the market
													sees products that start
													at a low baseline price.
													Customers have the option
													to get add-ons and
													increase the product’s
													value to their
													satisfaction. Value-added
													pricing is effective
													because it gives customers
													autonomy in determining
													the price they pay for a
													product. If a company has
													one product with one
													price, there will be a
													group that finds it too
													expensive and excessive,
													so they will refuse to pay
													for it. On the other hand,
														there will be another
														group that thinks the
														product lacks enough
														value to purchase.
														With add-ons, the
														cheaper group finds
														great value in the
														low-priced and basic
														product while the more
														expensive group values
														the product with the
														most add-ons and
														higher price. 


